simple or reasonably simple spec there
are a lot of things we won't build a hot
topic I think that's one of them but I
not convinced anyone push things down
too much sorry just for some context
we've actually discussed this a fair
amount when we worked in I built
initially and we kept them trying to
sort of shoehorn a lot of metadata into
IB LD and every time we tried that it
just got messy yeah I think so we need
again like this is so a lot of things to
discuss like explain to our users like
what are these two levels or even three
level from IP LD and also like probably
we need to find some names for all these
levels like we eventually ended up with
a format it like helps us to reverse
beautiful types of like a Schwing data
but it doesn't do anything else at all
like he doesn't include any selectors in
is equal any transformation and those
are the things that like once we try to
include those on the first iteration of
I Billy became like really passive
balloon fest and that's when we agreed
okay we're like this can be a layer on
top that we can write first implement
the base make it work and then
experiment on top and see what was I
think like there's a lot of issues with
a lot of notes on this we need to take
them up to dis chat to the notes of this
minute cool next up on my screen oh I
believe
did you finish Johnny sure okay awesome
next up is Nicola Nicola limited when
you are muted you cannot explain I
[Music]
wouldn't take notes of myself in a bit
do say no words right and I what I'm
interested in
we were right we started an effort last
year this year in February to write in
the spec
it would be nice to finalize the effort
sometime soon is that we got busy in
something else and what I've been what
I've been working on and I think that I
would like to reboot maybe by giving
what I've done you guys mostly because I
don't think I will have time in the next
couple of months is to finish off the
selector work which is which has started
a while ago and the selector is
literally how can i select sub parts and
how do i selects a path of the graph and
in a in an efficient way bow so in a
provable way and yes
that this man made the I think the
selector that is an issue that I am
going to linking this in this and please
chip in and there is also some working
code on how should we do the selectors a
few proposals one is using regular
expressions one is using a subset of
regular expression one is using
traditional XPath and Oh a even CSS
selector we got really crazy at some
point but I it's really important to get
that conversation going and get use
cases for that all right thank you
yeah like you know these things that we
know that there has been some discussion
somewhere let's make sure that like they
are all linked from there that's because
we need to come back to those issues at
some point cool so next up on my screen
is Emin I mean my visa Evan you're next
gonna go yeah well I was super resting
go and got up to speed with the go IPA
film again as Steven was my reviewer
and I finally managed to build a
resolver for the construction free
because the Atheneum object has 3 3 2
pitch a twist storage state the
construction and construction receives
on the next step is the real goal which
is put the whole porcinis
around 250 gigabytes into several
servers and then just a plug in 2 we
solve over the data and be able to use
real-life clients so so my goal in this
meeting series get around all the
interface all the roadmap of the project
to do the right implementations as far
as far as now to avoid silly question I
didn't do a lot I need to understand
resolved resolved links we all the right
vision you have guys so to do the right
implementations for now for example the
tree I do is yes in one level and the
rezoning is very intuitive but I want to
have the real rules they're real real
plans you have so to comply and and not
just delivering grow blocks but real
resolving and use the power of the
merkel forest yeah we definitely need to
start creating more examples that are
more than just like fetching blocks and
like a great example I guess right now
he's unique success Excel because now it
uses the dag resolver to define its
walks and Traverse term but attack still
like it's not very intuitive to go to
rebuild Steven this actually goes back
to my point where we go I give us the go
I killed the api's are really they don't
follow
IP LD very closely like they have really
funky interfaces they just don't match
the concepts on multi like there is
links method that returns
would our effectively ipfs link objects
that just make no sense that I feel deal
and like you have names and sizes and
whatnot got it got it
yeah at some point yeah what let's
finish it on up go quickly into deep
compositions cool so the next on my
screen is visa I I'm not sure if it is I
still here there you go
yeah I just need to unmute just say hi
just I wanted to figure out what's going
on with I feel these days cuz like I'm
looking for projects to try on your like
so I'm looking for things to get my
hands on randomly hiking and stuff
awesome welcome yeah yeah welcome sir
disappear from the screen sorry if it's
away from the screen occasionally I'm
writing an email on my laptop on the
same time cool so next up is Dmitry may
be similar to visual I'm just wrapping
up on on IP and trying to kind of branch
out to areas outside of flippy to being
where I can my about awesome thank you
cool so only three people left
Rasmus Erik I'm just talking to learn
more about it okay next is Lucas yes so
I am working on interpreting the trace
API we've go and to make it work and
currently I'm stuck on the April the API
not being I good on those sites
and there are some problems like dissing
civilization and sometimes will be like
there are problems with types on the
JavaScript size that's like the buffer
versus shrink is resolved on the dry
side but we still have like the numeric
types so JavaScript uses floats by
default and that is going to be quite a
problem with Sieber and I'd like to get
some like ideas to how to solve this I
think and someone is typing and clicked
but this really sucks when two people
type so I was taking notes and someone
is typing and I cannot take notes
anymore if I maybe can you let's edit
that clip pad after we're done I don't
know it's really odd they never happened
before but I stuff the typing and
someone I saw someone else typing and
all of my sentences got mixed up I see
yeah it sounds like a bug and yeah sorry
for that like someone is like that
being at the give birth like when we go
take notes and I'm not showing too much
stuff on the ends but but I will stop
and type later thank you by the way we
have like a surprise killer on quit pad
from TJ DNS I don't know if he's here on
this column but is the only prepare so
yeah cool so next is okay look as you
were like you were finishing up did you
share everything yes GE yeah mostly like
I'd like to hear some discussion on the
on how to resolve this problem
yeah it sounds like what stephenie's
working on will solve all your problems
is all once it's finished there's a bit
more here as well there's also the fact
that again we need some way like in
Jason itself to distinguish between
whites and strings and between like
floats in sand whatever
so we're gonna need some way of adding
types to Jason I think the way will or
one way I want to do this is to
basically use the same thing we're doing
with C IDs where we have a special
object and say like /type instead of
just /i dang it there's an issue about
this somewhere but I can't find it
interesting I have some other like Wes
can use to round up so like marking the
last one marking see you there all right
okay so I've been working on a mixed bag
of things so anything that I have going
is the eye peeled de Jason craft builder
and one thing that that has ran into is
like when I resolve Seabourn nodes
there's no nice way to get the Seaboard
node into Jason so it'd be nice to
standardize like a - Jason method on
different resolvers so maybe making it
part of details sounds good can you guys
hear me yeah I could we could um go
ahead within the other thing I had a
question about is yeah with the work Oh
with the graph builder um I was
wondering if there's any interest to
sort of like standardize a adjacent
representation of a a part of partial
graph where you leave out the intermedia
ashes and include the encoding
information all in Jason and then
recently I've been I implemented a
binary radix tree on a type of graph
builder and this opened up an
interesting question as to where things
like this should live on the stack
because I'm not sure if it should go
under should be a result or itself or
should live on top of IP LD so really
quickly a radix tree allows you to is
just like a key value store but the the
padding doesn't you you have to use it
through their attics tree you can't pass
directly through
it's like implementing a binary or you
know some tree structure search tree
structure over the top of IPL B and it
may make sense to put that lose that
kind of stuff to raise all or directly
yeah and then the last thing I sort of
mess around with is performance issues I
did a bunch of benchmarking on the
erratic Street the whole point of a
binary radix tree is it generates proofs
for key for values that are much smaller
than like aetherium hexadecimal Braddock
Street
um and I found some major performance
issues when uh when writing large
amounts of keys reading large amounts of
keys
and di also been the issue of making a
change to the way the result is
serializing and hash things so we don't
have to hash things twice just yeah some
some OCD performance stuff um yeah one
person and just even like just give me a
sec things burning something
hello so I have a little parentheses on
the work on the radix three in the
pathing I think this is also something
that we start a conversation on a long
time ago and for a year so and this
called the IP LD transformation I know
if Steven also wanted to mention that
but to me that the the simplest I killed
II will will give you some form of
pathing which is the basic path scheme
that you will get would stand IPL B so
if your structure is a binary radix
three then every single time you will
have to do slash some things like little
letter / little letter but that is that
we we want to allow you to do to avoid
doing this very complex is less less
slash everywhere by creating some
transformation over the graph so that
for a particular path the resolver as
you said is going to read is going to
read and every interpret what the answer
should be without going and really
low-level as it is now so this is also
not I'm writing down conversation that
we should have in the future and this is
like one big one yeah yeah so right now
is like super simple for me to implement
it on top of IP LD craft builder but
that means like now yeah now I can't I
would like to be able also use like
graph builder and oh they're just I
peeled the libraries to resolve these
paths directly
right
all right Steven
whichever ideally I should be any
reasonable sorry so ideally I guess
there should be a new new resolver then
right yes so yeah here's the I'll just
drop I'll drop a link to what I wrote
the notes to do to correct typing either
three and then I a link to a sort of
aspect of the tree but there's also as
implementation there wait a minute
really great angry
oh no sorry that's not a link to graph
builder sorry I'm free coffee here you
go here's the quick link there you go um
yeah the so one thing would be nice to
know though arm just on the proposed
changes I made for like serialization in
hashing and the you till I made PRS for
those that'd be okay or is someone like
working at then that's basically on me
like spinning becomes SPR every night
you trying to get back to my backlog
this week I've got most of this stuff
but I'm use that sorry for that
oh I promise to the way this thing I'll
do it after these calls just like I
think like what you did this like done
like I don't have any other comment and
yeah thank you for like doing all the
veg Friday and catching a problem
yeah no problem I'll get back to you
that cool so yeah Steven Steven Eddie is
enraged sorry never mind I'm just
talking in the chat and the shrine via
text that's all right
thank you so now that we've Eve is from
Robin and I have insured their wishes
and walkers there is like two trends
here I think all right looks like at
least first two trends like people want
to figure out like the interfaces
internally there's a lot of refactoring
and each value ipfs and that's what's
trickled to the public API is will save
a lot of time and work from what because
he's doing the the other thing is all to
build these graphs like right now we
have talked about the concept called way
out and the way out would be like what
graph builder does and what UNIX
evangelist which is like you keep
ingesting files and like uploading them
and I could Evi ashes and preserving
ashes and some point in time you've
flesh these files right like you you
have like these three memory and they
just like flush it out because like the
tree is big enough that it starts
consuming a lot of memory or because
like you just want to checkpoint it like
you want to be able to just fudge it to
disk so that's like if your process dies
for some reason you can pick it up from
where you left off and like if you don't
flush it you don't know what it was
this was also an issue that we had we
meet em FS like so em FS keeps a virtual
directory tree structure in your regular
stuff and when you add like thousands of
files and like thousands of the right
trees at some point the node might run
out of memory because like it is
something I personally to solve it like
it is but it might and so we had to
create mechanisms to go in the middle
and just like flash the entire tree you
know offense so that like if the nerve
crashed we will be able to pick up from
there so so then that tells me that
there is an interesting area
which is grab-grab builder that market
has been developing and it's like very
robust Sun like 20% best coverage and so
on and like try to develops the same
graph building thing that we're doing
mimics FS we've graphed builder for
market this would give us two things
first like it will like converge in a
way that that creating a tree in memory
words it will use the same language and
second it would enable UNIX access to
both create trees we perhaps or we
taxable right it will never less you to
use both formats and I think that will
be pre interesting okay Gabriel does
this make sense or on any any comments
cool so it sounds like a yeah go ahead
I have one quick question
I forgot to mention this another thing
I've been working on on the LD crap
builder is to add caching so if like I
do its tree of a graph and then I do a
flush it won't actually don't change
anything or I change some node he'll
only write the only write back the nodes
that I change and I was but before I did
that I wanted to make sure that like the
lower layers we're already doing
something like that
or if that should be higher and handled
at a lower level
so let me trend reduce anybody let me
repeat what you said just to see if I
understand like you when you look flush
on the breath builder you you create the
bag notes and you tell the resolver then
I feel the resolver to start that like
you do puts right where your nose yeah
yep and and but legs yeah yeah but if
the node didn't change I could do like
skip that oh I see so yeah that then
right now
at least from memory I think like if we
have a note that I want to store because
like you already have to pay the cost of
hashing the thing like we are like
catching a thing and trying to store it
to to the repo and if I'm a little
currently you actually don't check if we
have the nails in the report lots but
the thing is it's a trade off and it
depends on like if it's fast to write or
fast to read because if you if you say
oh in the repo I already have this hash
then you are trusting that the data
that's on the repo is actually correct
like there was no no damage to that data
so what you need to do exactly is read
the data that go through a repo action
also and then compare the actions they
are like yeah I had to every store it's
correct the this couch that we have
right now is every time we want to write
something we always ask you to the right
we don't confirm if the data that was
there was correct or not right yes so
let me know yeah the the way I would
implement it is um keep a weak map
between all the leaf nodes and their
original hashes and then when flushing
the graph if a leaf node half matches
the cache cache then return false and
that entire branch underneath it would
not be rehashed there we can do that so
the repo and the block service has no
concept of my key three it only nurses
blocks so that would never really need
to be implemented on our Calvi level it
can be on the resolver though like you
can be the resolver understanding that
there are trees and quitting it we clap
and then we can ask like just options
when we are doing put so that it knows
it's part of like a certain tree years
or something yeah I'll be totally fine
to include that as a feature of the
economy resolver slash service yeah by
the way I keep might be confusing forego
people
so I kill the resolver that are I peel
the format resolvers in chess land and
there is I kill you resolver which is
the package that implements liability
service which which is the same thing
you know we need to fix timing just just
like so when I say I feel TV's over and
I'm talking about my daily service
yeah do you have that people make is
already margins I have a partially
implemented in graft folder and there's
like hmm maybe they should actually
belong somewhere lower level in the
stack so I quit I the left forward here
might be to look at resolver a little
bit more and see where I could add this
series Oliver yeah yeah if you could
like open a PR and I start working on
that I'm sure you can figure out all the
API should look like and okay yeah I
think a prerequisite PR there is going
to be benchmarks for the resolvers
because like this really came out of me
benchmarking the radix Merkle tree
trying to improve the performance there
so I'll benchmarks especially for a
resolver and then didn't do a PR for
fashion I think so a question there and
and then probably we should like move to
the other big questions posted by a
Steven so would you like to lead the
effort on IPL the resolver benchmarking
and improving its performance also so I
physically should all the code that you
have developed so far understanding what
are the biggest pain points and then
like kind of like dating the path to for
everyone that's collectively into
ability to understand what needs to be
done to improve the performance of my
ability unless was I know that like you
have been working a lot in web assembly
and what we have discussed in the past
like doing all the resolvers and some of
the parts of by Kelvin
so that we could reuse resolvers across
languages right yeah I guess like that
would be an excellent excuse slash an
excellent way to convince everyone just
like start adopting women simply for IPL
B and start developing those resolvers
with webassembly right now we are also
like specially Friedel which not here he
start started implementing some critter
primitives with rest and I compelling
you to allens yes because I really
improve the Decrypter performance in
jessup if s is right now like 80% of the
time expand my ideas of the test notes
is on second do I like increasing the
packets on the browser so it's come it's
kind of like a ridiculous chunk so if we
could like join the efforts together and
I just level up the good book relatives
used by most template for everything
improve our ylb
works and making more performant that'll
be possible would you like to to to lead
the charge there or does it this is how
good some reason yeah that sounds good
um yeah could you open that issue for me
though for the awesome stuff
don't forget absolutely and really
quickly on benchmarking there's there's
two big bottlenecks there's the one with
the hashing that I keep bringing up but
the other big one as somewhere in JSI
PFS I'm pretty sure it's with the the
the the file system repo but I need to
dig into that a bit more okay okay so
I'll open the each about like the points
for awesome and like benchmarking and
what is happening also for second and
then we will just use that to to go to
you thank you awesome so I would like if
like if there are more questions on this
topic I would like to move now to Steve
initial question which is a KPI as an
integration see what I would you like to
like just bring up the problem a little
bit this morning like with more depth
and I can explain what you're taking in
the have you a muted which flicks apart
again so I don't you say okay you say
that you need to do a lot of refactoring
into a TFS to make a Cal da work in the
unique surface engine to make a POV work
for bit swap and future grasp on to make
a guilty work for the API is that focus
is amazing so on and I think I guess is
like a lot of work and we probably
should have a way to understand what we
are talking about like what are the
pieces difficult basic need to change
and why and so they're like we used to
do this often right like there was a lot
of changes in the early beginning of IP
offense because we also figure out a lot
of things and like me and Jeremy the one
which is like sit down and like this
guy's okay this part needs to change
because it's consuming that same epi
this part needs to change because
whatever and like as we refuse like the
dependency free we also realized oh we
can also improve this and that commands
so if it be awesome if you could do that
for go for DC never editor pushing yeah
I actually just posted an issue and IP
fest notes to cover some of this it got
rather large but yeah I'll continue
working on that that doesn't actually
include a lot of the other eye peeled he
related auto fiying the actual IP LD
node api's
is mostly a local branch my computer I
need to now like clean up a bit but I
was like all these emails related we
have to a personal don't want to discuss
like how we're going to reorganize the
block store and dad services something
that was it guys
mmm-hmm are you familiar with all the
interface I'd go deployments banks and
so on
I've seen them I remember discussing
them when we were working originally but
I I don't know how those like others -
ones were using in JSF a vest
we stuck with the originals or okay well
we the intersective kill the format is
used by every single resolver that means
like thanks Igor they occur above all
the joy resolvers right now like it
basically explains like quality of the
calls I need to be there you know where
I can best understand okay so look at
that the camera just see how it worked
my main issue here is like we have in co
IP events we have like a block service
and a block store and act service but
the the block service doesn't really
serve much of a use other than
integrating with the UM the exchange but
but the problems the exchange they can't
actually go there in the future because
the exchange needs access to IP all the
objects no blocks because integrated
with them I be sorry to have IP LD
selectors it needs to understand that
building so it actually needs to go up a
level on top of a dag service or
something like that
however now we also needed to sing some
tune of services that simply store I
feel the nodes I'm going to call them
node resolvers or node stores and things
actually understand like wearing IPL D
those would be like the actual dag
stores these things would understand
activity selectors so it's yeah I think
we're in the same page they're
interested with you here questions that
people have then but like right now from
all the discussions like all the
development progressing just at the best
we also have the blog serviced about
services I could be seen veneer that
might clog the bookstore we big change
and that's because like it's what
historically has only exchanged blocks
not like that we had in the past back
service but like when we moved to IPL B
I replaced the bag service with the idea
of a resolver it's like almost just a
name change and interface change because
I feel the resolver brought this rather
the concept of my local resolvers which
were like individual format resolvers
and back then would plug in together and
I think I talked about you called it the
new I build these stores in actually can
go ipfs there's still a dag service all
that does is store IP all the nodes as
opposed to blocks this guy throws
parsnip UD's
yeah and then there are functions that
perform resolving the hazard actually at
the moment but that's approximate how
that works
um yeah the DAGs dag started thinking of
is there specifically needs to exist to
execute i PLD quick or sorry yeah I peel
the selectors if we also been ideally
transforms that would be done that level
or that layer as well probably and at
that point probably right
Parham like resolution functions in
terms of I feel the selectors and IPL de
transforms which case we don't have to
be in special we would not need some of
those theoretically yeah but Mississauga
those shoes so what does it sounds like
is that yeah so like when my building
was implemented in BFS the transition
from that service to like IPL the
service didn't really happen
you just got like an arboreal and it is
sounded like somehow like the jessica's
implementation might be a little bit
more towards the future that you are
looking for enjoy with us and so it will
be very useful and I can like just guide
you through that all the things I didn't
JSF it does okay just a Bridget your
understanding yeah like to get you under
sitting here because like I think like
once you and just there now it just
depends you probably will like you know
defy problems that you can I conclude
but you might also get like I just
helped from mapping why is it woman
didn't get as plans to go here and what
yeah go ahead
one thing I would like to change I don't
know how this works might be out there
IP sorry ejs land is the job I don't
think that swap should be like a special
service
affected like two pieces there's the
piece that watches the dag and serves up
blocks and then there's the piece says
effectively a dag store or a block store
whatever want to call it it's alittle
just exports the block store interface
and you just ask it for Glocks there's
like at least equally that's the way
it's implemented is effectively two
different services that do two very
different things but then we mash them
all together and stick it in this weird
spot and just doesn't make sense I agree
the only thing that who I would argue is
they're like going by doing the full
transition so I going from deck service
that's now very weird and one key the
integration part to like I killed his
service plus ref swap and I say he
breasts have not that to be able I
couldn't beat swap anywhere but
sometimes just like I wait to say I mean
this is going to be an exchange they
like supports selectors and that's yeah
like it might be too much and that it
might be more wise to do first the
migrations liability service and
therefore propagating the api's that
would enable like the HTTP API to then
sales window in the wrong format instead
of like trying to export everything to
JSON and then throw a great trick but my
foot here's more that I think we need a
roadmap like we ever gonna put
everything so that we like we don't just
like start making changes and have to
undo our changes again and again and
again I agree I agree I'm happy to work
on that video if you want to if you
would like to leave the effort or likely
together I I would love to have other
people commenting on it they're helping
me design things and answer questions
there is a again I wrote up an issue in
I feel denotes repository at the F s
notes repository that's rather large
you wanted to try reading that you can I
will reread it once I've gotten a bit
more sleep because it may not make any
sense but unless who was written while I
had sleep thank you
okay that sounds good so we have five
minutes left
is there any question that someone else
that hasn't asked and it's kind of like
really urgent or should we just
identified the to those and like meet
next oh I'll take from the silence
that's we should just didn't find it to
lose any next week and I was just like
go through the notes here that Nicola so
kindly take it for us
yeah so like we need to set up a call to
discuss IPL VM json-ld probably before
the car would be good to a proposal in
an issue like just like a context I'm
Tony step people can drill and like you
we can even like use this call to
discuss this also it would be great if
you could show like a prototype of that
like what we can use from jason LOL vo
and that by having the context key to
IPO vo ends would be possible that is
not possible right now if you would like
take some notes there and post it as a
issue posted on the same issue that we
have okay sure thing
awesome I build interspersion resolver
we might able to use LDC like your stuff
here
this isn't so I can actually item Nikola
you like recording by this one can you
do this again sorry you the second line
999 I feel V oh no you committed it so
ok so there's like really
transformational piece over and I guess
like you mean just bring up the issues
and like magnum files i'm i kept a them
is that is that like you I try to do
yeah okay and okay so I'll talking of
people here figure out caching and I
think this is margin
I'll put here that it apps open issues
for mrklin open issues for margin there
was many I guess like one of them yeah
go ahead
we are walking the notes okay okay and I
guess that's the semester maybe twelve
true yeah okay cool so did we miss to
capture something here only to this for
next week
all right look looks good here
yeah thank you I think this was
productive there's a lot of still
surface area to go through like a lot of
things on that be sure that we haven't
talked about but it seems like we have
some tubers and like people are working
on some stuff that we can achieve and
yeah let's keep this meeting happening
like so I asked Shirley asked in the
beginning of the meeting should we do
this quickly or by with a week would be
a bit we are yeah
as I knew is anyone opposed to doing it
quickly and say like that guy I like
weekly again awesome okay let's keep it
between alright I guess that's all thank
you everyone all right
yeah have a great rest of the week
enjoy your weekend bye bye bye